Q1: Explain the following with example: AI, ML, DL.
Ans:
a) Artificial Intelligence: It is an application, able to its own task independently without human interactions. Examples are Robots, self driving car.
b) Machine Learning: It is a subfield of artificial intelligence that involves the development of algorithms and statistical models that enable computers to improve their performance in tasks through experience. It provided statistical tools to learn, analyze, visualize and delelop predictive models from given dataset. Examples are prediction of price of a car, identification of spam email.
c) Deep Learning: It is a branch of machine learning which is completely based on artificial neural networks, as neural network is going to mimic the human brain so deep learning is also a kind of mimic of human brain. Examples are object detection, image recognization, ChatGPT etc.

Q2: What is supervised learning? List some examples of supervised learning.
Ans: It is a part of machine learning. In supervised learning, we train a model with labeled data to predict the output. Examples are house price prediction, credit card fraud detection.

Q3: What is unsupervised learning? List some examples of unsupervised learning.
Ans: It is also a part of machine learning. Here, we train a model with unlabbled dataset and try to do a prediction. Tofind customer segmentation we generally use unsupervised learning.

Q4: What is the difference between AI, ML, DL, and DS?
Ans: ML and DL are the subfield of AI. DS is an intersection part of AI, ML, DL.

Q5: What are the main difference between supervised, unsupervised, and semi-supervised learning?
Ans:
a) Dataset: In supervised learning we use labeled data, in unsupervised learning we use unlabeled data, in semi-supervised we use both labeled and unlabeled data to train model.
b) As supervised model learn from data, it give more accuracy than unsupervised model and semi super-vised model.

Q6: What is train, test and validation split? Explain the importance of each term.
Ans: We generally the whole dataset into three part:
Train: this part of data is known and used to train the model to learn. It contains 70% of total data.
Validation: this part of data is known used to tunning the hyper parameters of trained model. It contains 10% of total data.
Test: this part is unknown, to evaluate the performence of model we use it. It contains 20% of total data.

Q7: How can unsupervised learning be used in anomaly detection?
Ans: This method does require any training data and instead assumes two things about the data ie Only a small percentage of data is anomalous and Any anomaly is statistically different from the normal samples. Based on the above assumptions, the data is then clustered using a similarity measure and the data points which are far off from the cluster are considered to be anomalies.

Q8: List down some commonly used supervised learning algorithms and unsupervised learning algorithms.
Ans: Supervised algorithms: Regression and Classification.
    Unsupervised algorithm: Clustering and Data Compression.
