Q1. What is an API? Give an example, where an API is used in real life.
Ans: API stands for application programming interface. It is a mechanism that enables the communications between two application, they are may be homogeneous or heterogeneous application. There are various types of APIs according to their architectur and scope of use.
Application of API: In our day to day life, we all are use online payment systems like Phonepay, Googlepay. Here these payment system do not store money, when we apply for a transection they communicate with our bank through to access our account and complete the transection. 

Q2. Give advantages and disadvantages of using API.
Ans: 
Advantages:
1. It enables the access of functionality or data from another application or server.
2. To access the data from another application through API, user may not be able to manupulate the functionality or data of this application.
3. In real life, API helps to modern our life style.
Disadvantages:
1. There may be a security problem to use APIs.
2. Providing and API is expensive.
3. User and developer may face problem after change the rules of. API 

Q3. What is a Web API? Differentiate between API and Web API.
Ans: A Web API or Web Service API is an application programming interface between web browser and web server. 
Differentiate between API and Web API:
1. Clients and server exchange the data using  TCP(transmission Control Protocal), SMTP(Simple Mail transfer protocal), HTTP(Hypertext Transfer protocal) in API, while in Web API, use only HTTP.
2. API is an interface between two software, while Web API is an interface between web browser and web server.

Q4. Explain REST and SOAP Architecture. Mention shortcomings of SOAP.
Ans:
REST(Representational State Transfer): It is a set of architectural principles. It defines an set of functions like PUT, GET, POST, DELETE etc. that clients can use to access server data. When a request of data sent to REST APIs, it is done through HTTP.

SOAP(Simple Object Access Protocal): It is an protocal maintained by W3C. As a protocal it imposes built-in rules that increase it's complexity and overhead. When a request of data sent to SOAP APIs, it is can be done throughany of the application layer protocal: HTTP(for web browser), SMTP(for email), TCP and others.

Shortcomings of SOAP:   
1. In comparison to REST, SOAP is more complex.
2. SOAP has extreamly limited support of data format. It only supports XML, whereas REST supports HTML, JSON, YAML, XML and others.
3. SOAP is generally slower than rest and it also uses more bandwidth for its complex nature.

Q5. Differentiate between REST and SOAP.
Ans:
1. SOAP is more complex but REST is used for its simplicity, scalability and flexibility .
2. SOAP only supports XML data format. Whereas REST supports HTML, JSON, YAML, XML and others.
3. SOAP can be more secure than REST. 
